Rates add (#494)
MewsSystems/gitbook-connector-api: operations/rates.md

## Add rates

Adds rates to the enterprise. Note this operation supports [Portfolio Access Tokens](../guidelines/multi-property.md). Rate type of `AvailabilityBlock` cannot be created via this operation.

### Request

`[PlatformAddress]/api/connector/v1/rates/add`

```javascript
{
    "ClientToken": "E0D439EE522F44368DC78E1BFB03710C-D24FB11DBE31D4621C4817E028D9E1D",
    "AccessToken": "C66EF7B239D24632943D115EDE9CB810-EA00F8FD8294692C940F6B5A8F9453D",
    "Client": "Sample Client 1.0.0",
    "EnterpriseId": "3fa85f64-5717-4562-b3fc-2c963f66afa6",
    "Rates":[
      {
          "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94",
          "RateGroupId": "b9f25a45-9b9a-4b33-99bd-b06f008eb6f5",
          "IsEnabled": true,
          "Type": "Public",
          "AccountingCategoryId": "3620c660-a4ec-4e0f-a0bc-b06f008eb8bf",
          "Names": { "EN": "My rate" },
          "PricingType": "DependentRatePricing",
          "Pricing": {
              "DependentRatePricing": {
                  "BaseRateId": "1a1ddd3b-e106-4a70-aef1-54a75b483943",
                  "RelativeAdjustment": 0.15,

>                   "AbsoluteAdjustment": 10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                  "AbsoluteAdjustment": 10.0
```

              }
          }
      }
  ]
}
```

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `ClientToken` | string | required | Token identifying the client application. |
| `AccessToken` | string | required | Access token of the client application. |
| `Client` | string | required | Name and version of the client application. |
| `EnterpriseId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the [Enterprise](enterprises.md#enterprise). Required when using a [Portfolio Access Token](../guidelines/multi-property.md), ignored otherwise. |
| `Rates` | array of [Rate parameters](#rate-parameters) | required, max 1000 items | Information about rates to be created. |

#### Rate parameters

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifiers of the [Services](services.md#service). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Service](services.md#service). |
```

| `RateGroupId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the [Rate group](rates.md#rate-group) under which rate is assigned. |
| `IsEnabled` | bool | optional | Whether the rate is available to customers. `False` will be used as a default when not provided. |
| `Type` | [Add Rate type](rates.md#add-rate-type) | required | Type of the rate. |
| `AccountingCategoryId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the [Accounting category](accountingcategories.md#accounting-category) the rate belongs to. |
| `BusinessSegmentId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the [Business segment](businesssegments.md#business-segment). |
| `Names` | [Localized text](_objects.md#localized-text) | required | All translations of the name of the rate. |

> | `ShortNames` | [Localized text](_objects.md#localized-text) | optional | All translations short name of the rate. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ShortNames` | [Localized text](_objects.md#localized-text) | optional | All translations of the short name of the rate. |
```

| `ExternalNames` | [Localized text](_objects.md#localized-text) | optional | All translations of the external name of the rate. |
| `Descriptions` | [Localized text](_objects.md#localized-text) | optional | All translations of the description. |
| `PricingType` | [Pricing type](rates.md#pricing-type) | required | Discriminator in which field inside `Pricing` contains additional data. |

> | `Pricing` | [Pricing](rates.md#rate-pricing-parameters) | required | Contains additional data about pricing of the rate. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Pricing` | [Rate pricing](rates.md#rate-pricing-parameters) | required | Contains additional data about pricing of the rate. |
```

| `NegativeOccupancyAdjustment` | decimal | required | This is the amount added to the price when occupancy of the space is less than the Space Category _Capacity_. To provide a discount price for under-occupancy, simply use a negative value. |
| `ExtraOccupancyAdjustment` | decimal | required | This is the amount added to the price when the Space Category _Capacity_ is exceeded. |

### Dependent rate pricing parameters
| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `BaseRateId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the rate on which this dependent rate is based. |
| `RelativeAdjustment` | decimal | required | This value is multiplied by the base rate to calculate an adjustment added to the base rate, e.g. a value of `1.0` means add 100% of the base rate to the base rate, effectively doubling the price. To subtract an amount, simply use a negative value, e.g. a value of `-0.1` means subtract 10% of the base rate from the base rate. |
| `AbsoluteAdjustment` | decimal | required | This value is simply added to the base rate to obtain the new price. To subtract an amount, use a negative value. |

### Response

```javascript
{
    "Rates": [
        {

>             "BaseRateId": null,

Reviewer: Sorry to be annoying, but can we put the JSON properties in the same order as they are in the table definition, e.g. starting with `Id`?

            "BusinessSegmentId": null,
            "GroupId": "b9f25a45-9b9a-4b33-99bd-b06f008eb6f5",
            "Id": "ed4b660b-19d0-434b-9360-a4de2ea42eda",
            "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94",
            "IsActive": true,
            "IsEnabled": true,
            "IsPublic": true,
            "Type": "Public",
            "Name": "My rate",
            "ShortName": "FF",
            "ExternalNames": {
                "en-US": "Long Stay Flexible Rate"
            },
            "ExternalIdentifier": "D001"
        }
    ]
}

> ```

Reviewer: `Description` is shown as `required` but is missing from the JSON sample

Author: Fixed to be optional, only name is required

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `Rates` | array of [Rate](#rate) | required | Rates that have been added. |

> 

Reviewer: `BaseRateId` is shown as `required` but is "null" in the JSON example. I assume this would be null for an actual base rate, so shouldn't it be `optional`?

| `AvailabilityBlockAssignments` | array of [Availability block assignment](#availability-block-assignment) | optional | Shows which rates relate to which availability blocks. |
| `Cursor` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the item one newer in time order than the items to be returned. If Cursor is not specified, i.e. null, then the latest or most recent items will be returned. |

## Add rates

> Adds rates the enterprise. Note this operation supports [Portfolio Access Tokens](../guidelines/multi-property.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds rates to the enterprise. Note this operation supports [Portfolio Access Tokens](../guidelines/multi-property.md).
```

### Request

`[PlatformAddress]/api/connector/v1/rates/add`

```javascript
{
    "ClientToken": "E0D439EE522F44368DC78E1BFB03710C-D24FB11DBE31D4621C4817E028D9E1D",
    "AccessToken": "C66EF7B239D24632943D115EDE9CB810-EA00F8FD8294692C940F6B5A8F9453D",
    "Client": "Sample Client 1.0.0",
    "EnterpriseId": "3fa85f64-5717-4562-b3fc-2c963f66afa6",

>     "Rates":[

Reviewer: As a general point, it would be easier to follow the documentation if the order of parameters in the JSON sample is the same as in the object definition, can we change that? I don't know which is the better order. Could you also check the response JSON.

      {

>           "Names": { "EN": "My rate" },

Reviewer: Should this be "Names" (plural) or "Name" (singular)? Also, shouldn't the language code be "en-US" not "EN"?

Author: Should be plural since it's dictionary. The language code is coming from business logic/database.

          "Type": "Public",

>           "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94",
```

          "RateGroupId": "b9f25a45-9b9a-4b33-99bd-b06f008eb6f5",          
          "AccountingCategoryId": "3620c660-a4ec-4e0f-a0bc-b06f008eb8bf",
          "PricingType": "DependentRatePricing",
          "Pricing": {
              "DependentRatePricing": {
                  "BaseRateId": "1a1ddd3b-e106-4a70-aef1-54a75b483943",
                  "RelativeAdjustment": 0.15,
                  "AbsoluteAdjustment": 10
              }
          }
      }
  ]
}

> ```

Reviewer: There are several properties for which there are no JSON examples. That may be ok, but perhaps you could just review them and decide whether any need to be added.

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `ClientToken` | string | required | Token identifying the client application. |
| `AccessToken` | string | required | Access token of the client application. |
| `Client` | string | required | Name and version of the client application. |
| `EnterpriseId` | string | optional | Unique identifier of the [Enterprise](enterprises.md#enterprise). Required when using a [Portfolio Access Token](../guidelines/multi-property.md), ignored otherwise. |
| `Rates` | array of [Rate parameters](#rate-parameters) | required, max 1000 items | Information about rates to be created. |

#### Rate parameters

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | `ServiceId` | string | require | Unique identifiers of the [Services](services.md#service). |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ServiceId` | string | required | Unique identifiers of the [Services](services.md#service). |
```

| `Descriptions` | [Localized text](_objects.md#localized-text) | optional | All translations of the description. |
| `PricingType` | [Pricing type](rates.md#pricing-type) | required | Discriminator in which field inside `Pricing` contains additional data. |
| `Pricing` | [Pricing](rates.md#rate-pricing-parameters) | required | Contains additional data about pricing of the rate. |

### Rate pricing parameters
| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `BaseRatePricing` | [Base rate pricing](rates.md#base-rate-pricing-parameters) | optional | Additional data for rate with base rate pricing. |
| `DependentRatePricing` | [Base rate pricing](rates.md#dependent-rate-pricing-parameters) | optional | Additional data for rate with dependent rate pricing. |

### Base rate pricing parameters
| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `Amount` | [Amount parameters](#amount-parameters) | required | Unit amount of the product that overrides the amount defined in Mews. |
| `EmptyCapacityAdjustment` | decimal | required |  |

> | `ExtraCapacityAdjustment` | decimal | required |  |

Author: @MikeAdamsMews I'm gonna need some help with description here.

Reviewer: OK, I need to do some research on these.

### Dependent rate pricing parameters
| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `BaseRateId` | string | required |  |
| `RelativeAdjustment` | string | required |  |

> | `AbsoluteAdjustment` | string | required |  |

Author: @MikeAdamsMews here as well

Reviewer: Again, I need to do some research on these.

> #### Amount parameters

Reviewer: I don't think you need to add the definition for `Amount parameters` here, it's already defined in `orders.md` so you could just reference it with `orders.md#amount-parameters`.

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `GrossValue` | decimal | optional | Amount including tax. Required for Gross [Pricing](configuration.md#pricing) environments. |
| `NetValue` | decimal | optional | Amount excluding tax. Required for Net [Pricing](configuration.md#pricing) environments. |
| `Currency` | string | required | ISO-4217 code of the [Currency](currencies.md#currency). |
| `TaxCodes` | array of string | required | Codes of [Tax rates](taxations.md#tax-rate) to be applied to the item. (Note, you can only define one tax when sending `GrossValue`. For multiple taxes, use `NetValue`)|

### Response

```javascript
{
    "Rates": [
        {

>             "BaseRateId": null,

Reviewer: Rate type appears to be missing from the JSON sample.

            "BusinessSegmentId": null,
            "GroupId": "b9f25a45-9b9a-4b33-99bd-b06f008eb6f5",
            "Id": "ed4b660b-19d0-434b-9360-a4de2ea42eda",
            "ServiceId": "bd26d8db-86da-4f96-9efc-e5a4654a4a94",
            "IsActive": true,
            "IsEnabled": true,
            "IsPublic": true,
            "Name": "My rate",
            "ShortName": "FF",
            "ExternalNames": {
                "en-US": "Long Stay Flexible Rate"
            },
            "ExternalIdentifier": "D001"
        }
    ]
}
```

| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | `Rates` | array of [Rate](#rate) | required | Rates that has been added. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Rates` | array of [Rate](#rate) | required | Rates that have been added. |
```

| `ShortNames` | [Localized text](_objects.md#localized-text) | optional | All translations short name of the rate. |
| `ExternalNames` | [Localized text](_objects.md#localized-text) | optional | All translations of the external name of the rate. |
| `Descriptions` | [Localized text](_objects.md#localized-text) | optional | All translations of the description. |
| `PricingType` | [Pricing type](rates.md#pricing-type) | required | Discriminator in which field inside `Pricing` contains additional data. |
| `Pricing` | [Pricing](rates.md#rate-pricing-parameters) | required | Contains additional data about pricing of the rate. |

### Rate pricing parameters
| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |
| `BaseRatePricing` | [Base rate pricing](rates.md#base-rate-pricing-parameters) | optional | Additional data for rate with base rate pricing. |
| `DependentRatePricing` | [Base rate pricing](rates.md#dependent-rate-pricing-parameters) | optional | Additional data for rate with dependent rate pricing. |

### Base rate pricing parameters
| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | `Amount` | [Amount parameters](#amount-parameters) | required | Unit amount of the product that overrides the amount defined in Mews. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Amount` | [Amount parameters](#amount-parameters) | required | Unit amount of the product. Note this overrides any previously defined amount. |
```

> | `EmptyCapacityAdjustment` | decimal | required |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `NegativeCapacityAdjustment` | decimal | required | This is the amount added to the price when occupancy of the space is less than the Space Category _Capacity_. To provide a discount price for under-occupancy, simply use a negative value. |
```

> | `ExtraCapacityAdjustment` | decimal | required |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ExtraCapacityAdjustment` | decimal | required | This is the amount added to the price when the Space Category _Capacity_ is exceeded. |
```

### Dependent rate pricing parameters
| Property | Type | Contract | Description |
| :-- | :-- | :-- | :-- |

> | `BaseRateId` | string | required |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `BaseRateId` | string | required | Unique identifier of the rate on which this dependent rate is based. |
```

> | `RelativeAdjustment` | string | required |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `RelativeAdjustment` | decimal | required | This value is multiplied by the base rate to calculate an adjustment added to the base rate, e.g. a value of `1.0` means add 100% of the base rate to the base rate, effectively doubling the price. To subtract an amount, simply use a negative value, e.g. a value of `-0.1` means subtract 10% of the base rate from the base rate. |
```

> | `AbsoluteAdjustment` | string | required |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `AbsoluteAdjustment` | decimal | required | This value is simply added to the base rate to obtain the new price. To subtract an amount, use a negative value. |
```

| `IsActive` | boolean | required | Whether the rate is still active. |
| `IsEnabled` | boolean | required | Whether the rate is currently available to customers. |
| `IsPublic` | boolean | required | Whether the rate is publicly available. |

> | `Type` | [Rate type](rates.md#rate-type) | required | Type of the rate |

Reviewer: I'm not clear on the difference between `IsActive`, `IsEnabled` and `IsPublic`. I understood that 'public' means available to end-customers, e.g. through the booking engine, but that is the same definition given for `IsEnabled`?

Author: `IsEnabled` - Whether the rate is enabled. Disabled rates aren't applicable - you can set this via UI as well.
`IsPublic` - This is just pure if the `Type` is `Public`
`IsActivate` - This property is on all entities, you can find it already existing in the documentation and meaning of it is always the same. If it's active or not - in other words deleted or not.

> | `Name` | string | required | Name of the rate. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `Name` | string | required | Name of the rate (in the first listed language). |
```

> | `ShortName` | string | required | Short name of the rate. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `ShortName` | string | required | Short name of the rate (in the first listed language). |
```

Author: I've checked the code and it takes default language. I've adjusted your description.

| `IsActive` | boolean | required | Whether the rate is still active. |
| `IsEnabled` | boolean | required | Whether the rate is currently available to customers. |
| `IsPublic` | boolean | required | Whether the rate is publicly available. |
| `Type` | [Rate type](rates.md#rate-type) | required | Type of the rate |

> | `Name` | string | required | Name of the rate. |

Reviewer: When adding rates, I notice that the `Name` is specified as `localized text`, but not here in the response. Is that correct? In that case, is the name the one for the default language code used at the enterprise? It seems a bit odd that `Name` and `ShortName` are strings, but `ExternalNames` and `Description` are `Localized text`.

Author: It returns the first name

```javascript
{}
```

> #### Add Rate type

Reviewer: I notice that `Add Rate type` differs from `Rate type` in that the former does not include `AvailabilityBlock`. Should we say in the description for `Add rates` that you cannot add availability blocks with this operation, or is that not necessary?

Reviewer 2: I think we can mention it since it can prevent confusion.
